---
layout: post
title: "Seminar"
icon: star-o
---

Dr Qiang Yin (Kyushu University)

### Title

A new method for calculating the decay rate of the false vacuum at
finite temperature by use of the saddle-point approximation



### Abstract

Coleman and Callan utilized path integral and saddle point
approximation to calculate the decay rate of the false vacuum state,
which is related to the imaginary part of the energy
eigenvalue[Coleman, 1977; Callan and Coleman, 1977]. The method was
later extended by Aﬄeck to evaluate the transition rate at ﬁnite
temperature, which is proportional to the imaginary part of the free
energy[Aﬄeck, 1981].

In the calculation at ﬁnite temperature, classical solutions
satisfying periodic boundary conditions were employed for the saddle
point approximation. Additionally, ﬂuctuations around these classical
solutions were required be periodic as well. However, inconsistencies
arose in this framework, particularly concerning the handling of the
zero eigenvalue associated with certain classical solutions.

Our research introduces a novel calculation method that emphasizes a rigorous evaluation of the path integral derived from the trace in the free energy. This method incorporates three signiﬁcant improvements over conventional approaches:

1.     The trace is explicitly computed by integrating over the endpoints of paths within the path integral.

2.     The saddle point approximation is performed in a functional space adhering to Dirichlet boundary conditions, instead of the periodic boundary conditions used in previous studies.

3.     Inﬂuence from shot solutions, as introduced by Andreassen et al., are incorporated into the calculation.

Our new approach eliminates the need for the so-called collective
coordinate method to handle the zero eigenvalue in the
calculation. Moreover, it provides a more intuitive way of calculating
the trace in the path integral approach, avoiding the ambiguous
application of periodic boundary conditions. Transition rates
calculated with our method exhibit expected behavior over a broader
range compared to those obtained using conventional approaches.

Furthermore, our research highlights several inconsistencies in
Coleman and Callan's original framework that require a more thorough
explanation. By addressing these issues, our method contributes to a
deeper understanding of the calculation of decay and transition rates
in quantum systems.

 